# Facial-Recognition-ML
There are so many advantages to using a technology such as facial recognition. It has the ability to help law enforcement find missing people, protect businesses against theft, and strengthen security measures across cities [2]. The technology; however, comes with many concerns along with all the advantages that it can offer. One concern about facial recognition that stuck out is that the algorithms used in facial recognition can create inequity in the way people of colour and females are recognized as opposed to white males. In today's social climate, addressing racism and social inequality has been at the forefront of the conversation. As computer engineers, using machine learning to erase biases and improve the technology for people of colour, is just one of the ways that we can help. One area where people of colour can be severely impacted by facial recognition is in the criminal justice system. According to a study conducted by Harvard University, research exposes divergent error rates across demographic groups, with the poorest accuracy being amongst those who are female, black and 18-30 years old [3]. In another study conducted by Georgetown University, it was estimated that 117 million American adults are in facial recognition data bases that are used by law enforcement – and that African Americans were most likely to be singled out as they were disproportionately represented in mugshot databases [4]. With law enforcement cross referencing mugshot data bases with facial recognition technologies, these inaccuracies can prove detrimental as the opportunity for the incarceration of an innocent person of colour is much higher than someone who is not. This suggests that the need for improved data sets to reduce inaccuracies is critical because it can literally be the difference between freedom or life behind bars.  Although machine learning is already the main driver for how facial recognition works, it is obvious that it can be improved upon to provide more accurate results in identifying people of colour. Facial recognition algorithms have an accuracy rate of 90%, but these results are not universal [3]. Incidents such as the death of George Floyd have sparked a movement to change the way the criminal justice system disproportionality affects the black community. By using more diverse data sets, to reduce false identification, it is our hope that machine learning will provide insights to how the criminal justice system can be changed for the betterment of those who struggle with it most. 
